Translator: Ali Sumait Auditor: Ahmad Altamimi
When I was in university ..
My major was government work
Which means I have to write a lot of papers,
Now when any ordinary student writes a paper
His schedule looks almost like this ..
as you see..
(Laughter)
Work is slow at first,
But you accomplish enough during the first week
Because it makes you see heavy days coming
She looks productive and cute.
(Laughter)
And I hope to do this the same way,
This is how the plan will be ..
I will start writing the schedule to get started,
Then it is time to write ..
And I end up like this!
(Laughter)
And this happens on every paper I write ..
Until I was asked to write a 90-page graduation thesis,
A paper we're supposed to be working on all year round!
For a sheet like this, my regular work schedule was not an option.
Because the project was so huge
I started planning for the project,
And I decided that the schedule should look something like this.
This is how the year will pass ..
I will start with the easy and light work,
Then I will increase the effort a little in the middle of the year,
At the end of the year, I will work to the best of my ability.
It will be very easy as a stair climb, step by step.
How difficult can stair climbing be?
Not a big deal, right?
But the funniest thing happened to me ..
In the first months,
It came and went quickly,
I could not do anything.
So I decided to change my plan a little ..
(Laughter)
Then ...
But in fact, the middle of the year went by quickly,
I didn't write a word.
It is now here!
Shrinking two months for one month ..
Then to two weeks ..
And one day I woke up,
And only three days left for delivery !!
And I haven't written any word yet,
So I did the only thing I could do,
I wrote 90 pages in 72 hours,
She continued for two whole days without sleep.
And people should not stay up two days without sleep,
I ran to the university,
In slow motion I turned the paper over
Exact date!
I thought I had accomplished everything.
A week later, I got in touch,
It was a call from the university.
They asked: "Are you Tim Urban?"
She answered, "Yes."
They said: "We must discuss with you about your thesis."
I said, "Okay."
They said ..
"It is the best thesis we have ever seen!"
(Laughter)
(clap)
In fact, this did not happen.
(Laughter)
It was a very bad thesis.
I just wanted to enjoy the moment when you thought:
"This guy is amazing!"
(Laughter)
No, no, it was very bad
Anyway, today I am a writer and blogger on the Internet ..
I write on a blog called "Wait But Why?"
Two years ago, I decided to write about procrastination and postponement
My actions have always baffled non-bad guys around me and why I postpone my business
So I wanted to explain to those and the world what is going on in me
The heads of those who shun and postpone their actions,
And why are we like this?
I had a theory that said
The minds of the missionaries are really
Different from other people
To test this, I found a lab that allowed me
Using an MRI machine to photograph my brain
Another man's brain does not postpone his work
To compare them,
And I brought the pictures with me for viewing today by yourself,
Now I want you to take a closer look to see if there is a difference.
I know that not all of you are experts,
And it's not clear, but just look, okay?
So here is the image of the brain that is not postponed,
(Laughter)
And now ..
Here is a picture of my brain.
(Laughter)
There is a difference .
Both minds contain (rational decision-maker)
But the procrastinator's mind
Also contains (instant fun monkey)
Now, what does this mean for the poor?
It means that everything is okay until this happens ..
Man: "This is the perfect time to get the job done." Monkey: "No!"
So (logical decision maker) will do
With something useful and productive.
But the monkey does not like the plan,
The monkey takes the wheel and says:
Why not read the full Wikipedia page
About the scandal of Nancy and Tonya (actresses) because I am
I just remembered that this happened!
(Laughter)
Then ..
Then we will go to the fridge
Let's see if anything changes 10 minutes ago.
Next, we will enter the YouTube vortex that begins
With videos about Richard Feynman (scientist) talking about magnets
And it ends after a very long time with watching interviews
With Justin Bieber's mother (singer) ..
(Laughter)
Monkey: "All this will take time,
There is no room to do anything today.
"Sorry!"
(Laughter)
Now, what's going on here!
This monkey does not look like the person you want
Leader behind the rudder.
He lives totally at the present moment.
He has no memory of the past and no knowledge of the future.
He only cares about two things:
"Easy and fun."
In the animal world, this works perfectly.
If you are a dog,
And you did nothing but easy and fun,
You are successful by all accounts!
(Laughter)
And for the monkeys,
Humans are just another type of animal.
They eat, sleep and multiply.
Which would be natural in primitive times.
However, if you do not notice, we are not in those times
We are in a developed and civilized time, and the monkey does not know what this means.
That is why it is in our head
(Logical decision maker),
That gives us abilities that no other animal can do,
We can imagine the future,
We can see the full picture
And we can make long term plans ..
The decision maker takes all of this into account,
And he wants us to do just what it looks like
Right and logical to do now ..
Sometimes it seems to do something
Logical and fun at the same time,
Like attending a dinner or going to sleep,
Or enjoy in free time.
That is why there is an overlap between logical and interesting.
Sometimes they get along,
At other times, it seems more logical
To work on something difficult and not fun
For the greater benefit.
And here is the conflict.
For the procrastinator,
This conflict always ends in the same way,
Which makes him spend most of his time in the orange region,
A fun, easy and completely separate area from the Logic Circle.
I call it (the dark games park).
(Laughter)
Now, (Dark Game Park) is a place
You all know it, good shoppers.
A place where leisure activities occur
In no time, really free time.
The fun you have in the (dark games park)
It is not real fun, because it is totally undeserved
And the atmosphere around you is full of guilt, unhappiness, anxiety and self-loathing
All the feelings of beautiful hairdressers ..
The question when the monkey is behind the wheel is:
How does the massif transport himself to the blue zone,
An area where less fun and easier things happen but much more important ..
Well, it turns out that whoever postpones his business has a guardian king,
Someone always watches and looks at him
In the darkest and darkest moments ..
A person called (The Monster of Dread)
(Laughter)
Now (the monster of dread) is sleeping most of the time ..
But he wakes up suddenly, when any deadline is too close
Or there is a risk of embarrassment in front of people
Or losing a job, or any frightening consequence ..
And the most important thing is that it is the only thing that scares the monkey.
Now, this monster has come into contact with my life recently,
Because TED conference officials contacted me six months ago
And let me talk about it.
(Laughter)
Of course I said: Yes, my dream has always been that
I speak at TED in the past
(Laughter)
(clap)
Amidst all this enthusiasm,
The decision maker was thinking about something else.
He used to say: "Are we clear about what we just agreed to?
Do we know what will happen one day in the future?
We should sit down and prepare the speech right now.
The monkey said: I completely agree with you, but what do you think about opening Google Maps?
We zoom in to the bottom of India and explore it
For two and a half hours until we reach the top of India,
In order to educate ourselves about this country. "
(Laughter)
This is what we did that day.
It turned 6 months to 4, then to 2, then to one month ..
TED decided to announce the speakers at the conference,
When I opened the site, I found a picture of my face
Staring at me.
And guess who woke up?
(Laughter)
(The dread monster) is losing his mind ..
In a few seconds, the system turned chaos.
(Laughter)
And the monkey rose - remember, the monkey is afraid of the dread monster -
He climbed up to the tree!
And finally,
(Logical Decision Maker) was able to receive the helm
And I was able to start working on the lecture
Now (the dread monster) represents
All sorts of crazy behavior among the messengers,
Like how I could spend two weeks
All sorts of actions on writing one sentence in my thesis,
Then miraculously, the words constantly come in
Two days to write 8 pages!
This whole case with the three characters,
This is the supermarket system.
Not beautiful, but in the end, it works.
And this is what I decided to write on the blog two years ago
And when I wrote, I was amazed by the responses,
Thousands of messages I received,
Of all kinds of people, from all over the world,
They do all kinds of jobs.
They included nurses, bankers, painters, and engineers
And many many doctoral students,
(Laughter)
And all of them said they write saying the same thing:
"I have the same problem."
What surprised me was the contrast between the lightness of speech
That you wrote and the weight of these letters,
These people were writing very frustrated
What did procrastination do to them in their lives,
What did this monkey do to them?
And when I thought about it, I said to myself:
If procrastination was working, what would happen?
Why are these people so frustrated?
It turns out that there are two types of procrastination,
Everything I talked about today, all the examples,
They all have a deadline.
And when there are deadlines,
, The delay effect is contained and pressed in the short term
Because (the monster of panic) interferes ..
But there is another kind of delay.
Type occurs in circumstances without a deadline.
For example, if you want to start a freelance business,
Something in art, or a pioneering business.
These works have no deadlines at first, because nothing happened at all.
While if you go out and start working hard
To gain some activity to do other work.
There is also a lot of important work outside of your business
It does not include deadlines.
Such as visiting your family or sports and taking care of your health,
Working to develop your relationships,
Or break bad relationships ..
Now, if the master’s way was the only way to end these difficult things
It is by (dread monster), there is a problem,
Because in all these important works that do not contain deadlines
The monster will not appear.
He has no appointment to wake up to.
So, the effect of the delay will not be contained
Thus, these actions will continue and extend forever.
This is the type of long-term procrastination
He who does not see nor speaks much about him
Like the first type: fun, short term and with deadlines.
Usually, people of the second type suffer calmly and privately.
And this procrastination may be a source
Great for long-term sadness and remorse.
And I thought: That's why these people are writing to me,
Therefore, they are in such bad condition.
Not because they are aiming for a specific project,
But because of that long-term delay that made them look spectators,
Sometimes, for their lives themselves ..
Their frustration does not come from the failure to fulfill their dreams,
Rather, they could not pursue it from the ground up.
As I read the letters, a kind of inspiration came to me:
I don’t think that someone is postponing their actions,
That's right, I think you are all miserable.
Of course, you may not be messy ..
Like each other.
(Laughter)
Some of you may be on good terms with your appointments and stick to them.
But remember: The Secret Monkey's Trick is
When there is no deadline.
Now, I want to show you one last thing ..
I call this: (life schedule)
Each square represents a week in the life of 90 years,
There doesn't seem to be much of it ..
Especially since we used a lot of them before
I think we all need to take a deep look at this schedule.
And we must really think about what we postpone,
Because each of us has something to delay in his life
We must remain wary of the instant fun monkey,
This is a job for all of us.
And because there aren't that many boxes in the table,
This is a job that you should start from today.
Mmm, maybe not today but ...
(Laughter)
As you know ,
Sometime soon ...
Thank you .
clap